Beth Tremains
Advanced Photography & Comm. Spring 2015
Color Mythology- A World of Metal

	After much contemplation of colors in the world around me, 
	I began to find myself exploring metal and its diverse significance. 
	Metal can be a range of colors depending on the type, but it also varies 
	with age and use. One universal meaning behind metal is strength. In addition 
	to this is the mirroring of one's inner soul.  This idea of a material and its 
	color coexisting to create this universal meaning was especially intriguing to me.
	
       The Wilson Art Building became my chosen backdrop for this exploration into the 
	   presence of metal in the physical world around us. Rusted metal revealing its age
	   like a proud warrior was present everywhere, but there were not as many instances
	   of metal appearing shiny and new; much like we rarely encounter a person who is 
	   unchanged by life's experiences.  The rusted metal displays the meaning of 
	   strength more than the shiny, new metal, primarily because it demonstrates 
	   how one can possess the strength to endure life's hardships and still continue 
	   through life with a proud stance.  The idea that metal is also a mirror into one's
	   inner soul was also interesting because two connections can be derived from it. 
	   There is the physical idea of seeing oneself in the reflective quality of shiny new 
	   metal, and view oneself in a way others might or might now. With rusted, aged metal 
	   comes the idea that we all are worn down by the elements in the world around us, but 
	   even so we can still possess the strength we come into this world with. We each have 
	   an inner self that we conceal from others; very few choose to allow others to view this 
	   self-worn and imperfect self. 
	   
       The world is full of colors, but it is up to us as artists to seek out and explore 
	   the secrets these colors hold.  At first glance a piece of rusted metal may just seem 
	   used and old, but it also holds a much deeper meaning that all can relate to.  We are
	   all born into this world, new and untouched, but with time we get worn down, our shiny
	   new selves no longer exist.  Life experiences shape our being, and change the way we 
	   live our life and change the way we reveal ourselves to others. Metal shows all with 
	   age and nothing is concealed or hidden; it bares its life experiences like a proud badge. 
	   No shame is evident. Unlike metal, human nature causes us to hide parts of our selves that 
	   we feel is not worthy to be seen, or parts that are worn down from life. Shame and doubt 
	   are sometimes the only thing that is present in our lives.  We must learn to overcome this 
	   natural tendency and embrace our life experiences for what they are, using them to strength us instead of depreciate.
