Beth Tremains
Photography & Communications-Final Artist Statement 11-28-14

?Discovering Equilibrium?

	The past is what you remember, imagine you remember, convince yourself you remember, 
	and pretend you remember- all combined into a distorted present that shape your future.

	The foundation of my project revolves around the use of pieces of the past that 
	at the time were largely important; my great grandmothers wedding dress, shoes, 
	and veil, my grandmothers wedding dress, mom's white prom dress, and my mom's 
	white wedding shoes. Sometimes one must step into the past in order to be fully 
	aware of the present, but also must be careful to not loose oneself to dwelling 
	in the past.  I pursued experimentation with motion- inspired by artists such as 
	Annie Noelker, Annie Leibovitz, and Francesca Woodman- in a manner that results 
	in a ghostly, otherworldly pictorial images. The incorporation of light to highlight 
	fragments of images became an important factor in how captured motion was portrayed. 
	This project conveys how the past is not always dead; that sometimes it is essential 
	to revisit the past in order to find out your place in life.  William Faulkner states 
	it best, "The past is never dead. It's not even the past."
	
    I lessoned the saturation of my photos to hold a faint glimmer of color so as to 
	represent the equilibrium between past and present.  The past is what you remember, 
	imagine you remember, convince yourself you remember, and pretend you remember- all 
	combined into a distorted present that shape your future.  The complexity of this 
	situation dwells in not getting stuck in trying to relive the past, because we must 
	be present in our lives and live out our unique fates-not relive the lives of those 
	before us, though we may be tempted to.  The past allows us to feel connected with 
	something, or someone that feels lost except in the photographs that remain. This 
	loss may cause us to sometimes desire the past over the present, and sometimes the 
	future.  As Bill Cosby puts it, "The past is a ghost, the future a dream, and all 
	we ever have is now."  
       
	The process of photographing these items documents my trail in attempting to make 
	sense of the women that have lived before me.  Each woman had a direct influence on 
	her daughter: my great grandmother on my grandmother, my grandmother on my mother, 
	and my mother onto me. This makes me wonder how much influence my great grandmother, 
	though I never had the opportunity to know her, has truly had in my life because of her 
	impact on the growth of my grandmother and my mother.  Each of these women's choices in 
	life has laid down the foundation for the way I was raised, and therefor influenced the 
	person I am and hope to become.  The influence of each of these women, as indirect as it 
	may appear at first glance, has significantly affected the way I have been raised, and 
	affected the morals that have been instilled into my character.  Without these women, 
	and the individuals they were and are, I would not be the person before you today.
       
	The past is never truly gone- it is always a part of the person you were, the person you are, 
	and the person you are meant to become.  These photographs show my attempt to grasp at 
	who these women were, and are, and why I have found that without them I would not be who 
	I am today.  I am forever in debt to these women and the sacrifices they made in order 
	to teach and help their daughter's grow.  They have enabled me with the necessary tools 
	and knowledge to become the person I am and will become.  

