Beth Tremains
Advanced Photography
March 19, 2015
It?s Beautiful here isn?t it/Photo Faces

Sparking Episodic Memory
	Life doesn't always turn out the way we expect it to.  
	There are bumps in the road that leave us with memories 
	that we don't always anticipate.  No matter how we may try to 
	conceal these memories, and mixed emotions associated with them, 
	something as simple as a tangible object can trigger these memories back to life.
	The following is a trail of inanimate objects that come to life with 
	episodic memories when my gaze reaches them. They are some of the best 
	moments in my life, and yet I am left with a dejected feeling when the 
	memory passes and I realize that I am left without the person who made these memories with me.  
	Each of my photos is in black and white in order to convey a mood that something is missing, 
	as well as to allow a greater contrast between specific aspects of the objects; leaving the 
	focus solely about aspects of the objects present and memories and emotions they trigger for me.  
	I chose to take close ups of these objects in order to create more abstract depictions to convey 
	the intensity of the memories elicited by the objects.  This project has allowed me to realize how
	in the end these objects are lifeless beings that in reality hold no power over my life and the course it is on. 
	The power is solely in the memories they trigger within my conscious.  
	
	While the memories these objects summon from my conscious leave me longing for something 
	I can no longer possess, I am grateful to have these memories to look on and grow from.  
	These object hold some of the most precious moments of my life thus far, and I wouldn't trade 
	these memories or objects that hold the truths of these memories for anything.  This project
	has allowed me to realize how much I truly cherish everything associated with these objects
	and memories and how at the end of the day they are a piece of me, but I must not allow 
	these memories to consume me causing me to be stuck in the past.  I finally understand
	how I cannot live life through these past memories and use them to create "what-if" scenarios.  
	I must live my life in the present and strive for what I want in this life for my future, 
	focusing on who I am and how I can become the best possible version of me.  Each object holds a
	piece of me, and a secret that I conceal from the world around me and I must embrace that for what it is.
